This repository, the associated videos, and everything recorded within it, was created in about a day for the "Hermes Agent" Hackathon.

There's a lot more to explore here, and I don't intend to suggest that this one tool I vibecoded over a weekend can be picked up and used off-the-shelf by big data companies without any further usage required. I do think, however, that it's a strong step in the right direction.

The vocal overviews were also generated by AI, specifically using Google's NotebookLM service, which was given the source code and the following prompts:

Please note that AIs may hallucinate or provide incorrect information. I listened to both audio files in their entirety and agree with enough of what they said that I'm comfortable publishing the audio unedited, however it's worse pointing out that the AIs will have some obvious and not-so-obvious hallucinations and biases, some of which may have been triggered intentionally or unintentionally by me as part of the process I used to create these systems.

The AI also fails to mention some things I would note. Most critically, that I suspect the best form of this data involves *using the annotated data itself* where the *full original text* is retained and interleaved with ILI data. I have more specific thoughts about how to do this but I have not made those public at this time, so for now my recommendation is that the data format should likely just insert ILI ids as optional prepended entries to original unaltered text format, which should allow ILIs to act as base conceptual sinks that naturally absorb context from their surrounding environment. This could probably be paired with clausal tokens to create hyper-efficient extreme-range attention mechanisms.


Please note that my code also uses a particularly weird, untested license, and that I am not a lawyer and may not fully understand the implications of the license itself. I may re-release the code at some point under a different language. However, it's worth noting that I have not patented anything here, so I would be incredibly surprised if literally any company decided to use this code rather than just whiterooming the same concepts and creating their own implementations. I encourage anyone, large or small companies, to create these ideas and public large datasets that use properly disambiguated, "separation of concerns" chained models, as the next step past "Mixture of Experts".

I appreciate kind comments left on the video, please be aware that nearly everything you see here was created in a day for a hackathon, so this particular expression might be a bit rough, but the foundation (and many of the ideas behind it) are things I've been mulling over for quite some time.

Full Disclosure: all Github commits, sans the first commit, were created on-screen and are shown in the video. This is, however, built on a foundation that involves extensive wordnet research and exploration I've done on my own time, and the initial commit in this repository was a joint collab between Claude Code (Claude Opus) and Hermes 4, where Claude and Hermes used the world's strangest communication protocol to argue about what would be a valid task for the Hermes 4 model.

This is because I entirely misunderstood the purpose of the hackathon when I started building it on Saturday (which itself was largely deciding what parts of my own projects I was comfortable open-sourcing), so I had to re-pivot the entire project to use the IDE on Sunday.

It has been a very long weekend.

Please subscribe and/or grant money or something.






This is a timelapse of me using the Hermes Agent to create a tool to solve one of the biggest problems in machine learning embedding spaces today.

(Note: the audio was AI-generated by NotebookLM's "Brief" Audio overview and may be inaccurate)


additional note: I wrote this disclaimer for the video description but I realized I should probably put it in the repository itself. hackathon deadline is in 50 minutes.
